After a couple of minutes searching I finally realized
that ref will not work with reactive data binding
as noted in this vue js api here.
So here we need to find other alternatives.
Maybe the easiest way is to call highlight all
under method to re-scan all DOM elements.
But again I don't want to choose that way because in
my opinion re scanning all DOM to highlight our code
after a new enter added is not make sense.
Maybe we can use the classic way
I mean we'll be making use the id tribute to the element
then select the element with the javascript get
element by id method.
So let's do that
let's switch over to our editor.
Don't forget to run npm run watch
then open the answer component.
Here
lets bind the attributes to unique name. Remember unique name will generate a string contains answer
and id of the answer. Next
let's jump to highlight mixin. Here
let's modify this highlight method definition again.
First let's define an argument let's say
id and it should be empty by default
here
Let's cut this
then here if the id is empty
we'll assigned to el variable from this refs body
html. Otherwise if id is not empty we'll select
the element by utilizing the document dot get element by id
and pass in the id from argument.
That's it
So basically what we did here is to make this highlight
method to be more flexible. When we call this
method without passing id
this method will select element by ref or reference.
And when we need to select element by id we need
to call this highlight method add passing the id.
Now let's go back to answers component
then here in highlight
method call let's specify the id as answer
answer dot id.
Le'ts save all changes
back to our browser I get error
let me change this to `let` save
back to our browser reload the page
let's open our browser console
again I'll copy this answer
and then paste here
I'll hit submit
here in console.
I get null and the syntax highlight
still not working.
Do you have any idea why this happened?
So this occurred because vue js performs DOM updates
asynchronously so I can simply say that when
we perform ajax call and get respond back the new answer object then pushed to the answers array because
the answers array
is reactive vue js will will perform DOM updates asynchronously.
But before it's finished this highlight method is being called
so in order to wait until vue js has finished updating
the DOM we can use the vue js next tick
method like this
then move the highlight method call inside here
let's save
reload the page
again I'll copy this answer
and paste here
let's hit the submit button
okay great.
Here we see the element appears in the console
and our new answer is being highlighted. Now
the last more thing that we need to do is here the
load more answer button. Here if we hit the button
some answers will be added to the page
but here you see the code is not highlighted.
Also I found another issue sometimes if I reload the page
here you'll see the syntax highlight is not working.
So we'll fix these issues in the next video.
All right
let's commit our changes into our git repo.